In this video we'll break down the two primary types of data stores offered on Wiis for VMA fests and
Fs.
Let's start by taking a look at a vm a fast data store.
So there are many different types of storage arrays that you could potentially purchase in this particular
slide we see and I scuzzy storage array that's been deployed now.
There's a lot of other options out there.
There's Fiber Channel Fiber Channel over Ethernet.
And basically the big difference between those different options is the type of network that they use.
In this case let's assume that it's an ice scuzzy storage array which is a vm a fast storage solution.
Fiber Channel and Fiber Channel over Ethan that are also going to utilize the VM EF-S data stores.
So for the moment let's just get rid of our ESX I host here on the left hand side of the screen and
let's focus purely on the storage array itself.
So this is a nice easy storage right.
And you can see here some of the key characteristics.
Our host is going to communicate with the storage array over an ethernet network and the storage array
is equipped with two storage processors.
We've got our nice little redundant connections here just in case one of those Ethernet switch fails
or add cases storage processor files and just think of the storage processors those are like the brains
of the operation.
Right.
And this is the same if you're dealing with I scuzzy or Fiber Channel olf or Fiber Channel over Ethernet.
What's really different about those three different types is these types of switches that we're going
to use here with fiber channel.
We're going to use a fiber channel switch fabric with fiber channel everything that we're going to use
an Ethernet switch and same thing with ice.
We're going to use an Ethan at switch
and then on the right hand side we've got the actual storage array itself right.
So the storage processors are kind of like the brains of the storage array.
They also provide connectivity and then we've got a shelf of disks called our aggregate and that's all
the physical space that the storage arrays equipped with.
And we're breaking down all of that physical space into smaller chunks called Lund's logical unit numbers.
And that's all that alone is a chunk of space on a storage array.
So now that we've kind of got the storage components figured out here we can see the ESX host also connects
up to these Internet switches.
Or maybe it's fiber channel and connect to the fiber channel switch fabric doesn't matter.
In either case.
It's kind of the same concept here.
And so now that we've got an ESX host with a communications channel where it can speak to the storage
array and we have these the ones that are created on the storage array now we're in a position where
we can actually go ahead and start creating some VM fast data stores and the first step of that process
is a significant step.
We have to discover targets.
So and I'll just kind of focus on ice Gazi at the moment.
So here's my ESX I host.
And I want to create a data store that is properly formatted that has the correct file system that's
going to allow me to store virtual machines.
And right now I can't do that right.
These lines are chunks of raw unformatted disk space.
These are just chunks of space.
Think of them similar to you know a physical disk that you just pulled out of the box.
There's nothing on these there's no file system present.
I can't store anything on these disks just yet.
Same thing with lawns.
They have to be formatted before they can be used.
With ice scuzzy we're going to use a method called automatic discovery or dynamic discovery and the
first step is to configure the host with the target IP address.
Right so we're going to tell our ESX host OK if you want to discover the available Lunds This is the
address that you should query.
You should query 10 not 1 1 0 or I'm sorry 10 not one not one not 10 which is the IP address of our
storage processor at which point we can perform a rescan on our ESX I host and havock query that storage
processor have it generate what we call a send target's request and storage processor will receive that
query and it will respond with a list of all of the available Lund's that it has now my ESX host knows
about.
Essentially the blank disks that it can use right the big chunks of raw on format a disk space.
There's three of them and now we can choose one of those lines and create a data store on it.
And when a VM a fast data store is created what essentially happens is this the space on this line is
going to get formatted with the VM FS file system and it is now going to be presented to my ESX I host
as a data store and will call it data store one right and now I can start storing virtual machines on
it.
Right because the LUN has now been formatted with the VM FS file system and its now suitable storage
for my virtual machines.
So when you think about VM FS kind of think about that concept of we have lunch with VM FS We have Lund's
LUNs are like a raw formatted disks and they have to be formatted with the VM FS file system.
This is very different than the way that FS works and FS is a whole different ball game right.
And so with VM FS let me jump back a slide with VM if these Lund's very much behave as if they were
physical disks right.
I can even have an ESX I host with no local storage and it can boot from one of these Lund's so we can
even do stuff like that when it comes to a fast and the FS is very different right.
I can not boot a host from unmanifest share thats not possible.
There is no VM FS involved.
When we start talking about a fast there's no VM fast there's no special file system right.
The FS device owns its own file system it operates its own file system and what happens is the ESX host
simply accesses a shared folder.
We call these in FS export it's going to be some folder that we create on this NFL device or network
attached storage device whichever you want to call it.
That we are going to present very similar to a shared folder.
We're going to present that to our Yes I hosts the ESX I host doesn't have to format it.
There's no file system to be created.
Right.
And aside from the ability to boot from San there's really not a lot of feature differences between
and manifest data store and a VM infestation story.
Really the only two things that that FS does not support.
I say the only two really key things are the ability to boot a host from San and the ability to create
a raw device mapping.
I can't give a virtual machine direct access to a loan because I don't have any wants.
So raw device mappings are not support right.
So let's take a look at how my ESX I hosts actually connect to an NFL data store and here on the left
hand side we see a virtual machine with the virtual scuzzy controller.
And just like we talked about in the storage virtualization video my guest operating system Windows
in this case is going to generate scuzzy commands.
And as they flow out of windows they're going to hit my virtual scuzzy controller and from there they're
going to hit a storage adapter.
And in this case the storage adapter is pointing towards this and EF-S data store that we've mapped.
All right so the scuzzy commands are actually going to be pushed over to a VM kernel port and transmitted
across the network to the IP address of this and FS system and the data store that we created was created
on a specific folder.
And the ESX I host has root access to that folder.
So now as my virtual machine generates scuzzy commands they flow out they're prepared for transmission
on the network they had a VM kernel port flow over an ethernet network hit the interface on the NFL
system and are redirected to the VM DK for that virtual machine that exists.
And I fast storage system
so again really quickly just to review with VM how fast we want to think AVMA fast is having Lund's
chunks of raw disk space that must be formatted and we can boot our hosts from those Lunts and give
us the file systems already in place.
There's no formatting required in the file system is already there and we're just basically accessing
a shared folder that was created on that file system.
So you'll notice if you ever create and manifest data store they don't take very long at all to be created
because there's no formatting there's no zeroing There's nothing like that has just done you amount
to a shared folder and you're finished.
So in this lesson we learned about V.M. offense we learned that I scuzzy fiber channel and fiber channel
over ethernet storage arrays utilize VM fast and within the storage array there are these raw formatted
Lund's that the ESX hosts must format with the VM FS file system whereas NTFS has its own file system
independent of ESX I and no formatting is required.